README.md, before:

# PIC and AVR LTE Demo Files

This repository contains the .hex files that you can use to program your Microchipo AVR or PIC boards with to demo cellular function using the Ublox SARA-R4 LTE CAT-M1 click board. Below you will see a short description of each .hex file and which board it can be used with. You'll also find instructions on how to get the demo running.

Applications Rev 1.00 & Documentation Rev 1.10

Notes - Updated documentation with pictures, links, and demo walk through.

---

## Hardware Setup

1. Attach the SMA antenna to the SMA connector on the u-blox SARA-R4 module
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/attach_antenna.jpg" height="260"></a>
2. Open the SIM holder on the u-blox SARA-R4 module and insert your SIM card. Be sure to close the SIM holder.
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/open_sim.jpg" height="260"></a>
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/insert_sim.jpg" height="260"></a>
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/close_sim.jpg" height="260"></a>
3. Connect your u-blox SARA-R4 module to your AVR or PIC board using the click pins and header. Be sure to read the pin names and align the GND or GROUND pins.
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/attach_click.jpg" height="260"></a>
4. Connect a USB to Micro-USB cable to your PC and the Micro-USB port of the PIC or AVR board.
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/plug_in_usb.jpg" height="260"></a>

---

## Flashing the Microchip Board

1. Download the correct .hex file based on your board and demo from our FCS GitHub page.
2. Ensure that your Microchip board is showing in your file system. Typically, it is displayed as “CURIOUSITY”.
3. Now drag and drop the .hex file you want to use over to your board labeled “CURIOUSITY”. This will program the board.
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/HEX-2.png" height="260"></a>
4. Once the flashing is complete you’ll see both the Microchip board and the u-blox SARA-R4 power up, as indicated by their green and yellow LEDs respectively.
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/correct_power_leds.jpg" height="260"></a>

---

## Cellular Setup

The u-blox SARA-R4 module must be configured with an MNO (Mobile Network Operator) profile and the correct APN for the sim card you are using. Please follow the instructions below, but remember that one size may not fit all so we recommend checking the [SARA-R4 AT Command Guide](https://www.u-blox.com/sites/default/files/SARA-R4_ATCommands_%28UBX-17003787%29.pdf) if needed.

+ AT+CFUN=0
    + Stop the protocol stack before changing MNO profile settings.
+ AT+UMNOPROF=?
    + Shows a list of the possible network operators you can select.
+ AT+UMNOPROF=X
    + Where X is equal to the operator you want to use. It is possible to leave it at the value of 0 in which it will use the default option.
+ AT+CFUN=15
    + This will reboot which is required whenver you change the MNO profile.
+ AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","jtm2m"
    + CGDCONT let's you set the APN. This example shows a setup for a Jersey Telecom APN that is IPv4 based with no static address. You may need to alter this command if you are using a different SIM/Carrier.
+ AT+CGDCONT=2,"",""
    + This will make sure that you don't have a secondary APN set up. We want to use only the primary APN in "slot 1" that we set up in the previous step.
+ AT+CGDCONT?
    + This will read back your APN settings so that you can verify they look correct. Note that you may have an IP address assigned instead of just 0.0.0.0 which is a good indicator that you are connected to a network and able to pass traffic.
+ AT+CFUN=1,1
    + Sets the functionality and reset modes.
+ AT+CMEE=2
    + Set error reporting to be verbose
+ AT+COPS?
    + You have to be patient with this command. It will scan and return which networks are available, but it can take minutes to complete.
    + Be sure you have some networks availabe. You can see what numbers represent which carriers here: https://www.roamingzone.com/mnc/ 
+ AT+CEREG?
    + Read back the Network Registration Status. You want to focus on the second parameter that comes back. A value of 1 means you are registered on the home network. A value of 2 means you are not attached, but still scanning. Finally, a value of 5 means you are attached but roaming. Thus, you are looking for a value of 1 or 5.

---

## Running Through the BLE Demo

Make sure you've followed the steps above to appropriately set up your hardware and flash it with the correct .hex file. Now, follow the steps below.

1. Download and install the LightBlue Punchthrough app on your phone or tablet.
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/MCHP-1.png" height="480"></a>
2. Open the app and it will scan for nearby BLE devices. 
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/MCHP-2.png" height="480"></a>
3. You’ll be able to connect to your Microchip board over BLE and issue commands to the u-blox SARA-R4 cellular module using the "Serial" section.
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/MCHP-3.png" height="480"></a>
4. You can start by sending “AT” which should give you an “OK” message back.
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/MCHP-4.png" height="480"></a>
5. You're now able to send whatever commands you would like to the SARA-R4. For more information on u-blox AT commands please refer to the guide below.
    - [AT Command Guide](https://www.u-blox.com/sites/default/files/SARA-R4_ATCommands_%28UBX-17003787%29.pdf)

---

## Individual .hex Files and their Associated Boards

**AVR-BLE_LTE_Click.hex** \|  [AVR-BLE](https://www.futureelectronics.com/p/development-tools--microcontroller-microprocessor--8-bit-eval-board/dt100111-microchip-5123703)

Demo Features: This application will provide a wired UART pass through that will allow you to control the cellular module via AT commands. Addtionally, there is a small API to send commands to the cellular module over the UART which you can use to develop your own application.

**AVR-IoT_LTE_Click.hex** \| [AVR-IoT WA](https://www.futureelectronics.com/p/development-tools--rf-wireless/ev15r70a-microchip-8125363)

Demo Features: This application will provide a wired UART pass through that will allow you to control the cellular module via AT commands. Addtionally, there is a small API to send commands to the cellular module over the UART which you can use to develop your own application.

**FCS-LTE_AVR_LIGHTBLUE_EXPLORER_DEMO.hex** \| [AVR-BLE](https://www.futureelectronics.com/p/development-tools--microcontroller-microprocessor--8-bit-eval-board/dt100111-microchip-5123703)

Demo Features: This application is based on Microchip's existing LightBlue Explorer demo. Via BLE, you can control LEDs, see temperature, and accelrometer data. Additionally, with using the ASCII or Hex text box on the LightBlue app you can communicate with the cellular module over BLE by issuing it AT commands.

**FCS-LTE_PIC_LIGHTBLUE_EXPLORER_DEMO.hex** \| [PIC-BLE](https://www.futureelectronics.com/p/development-tools--microcontroller-microprocessor--8-bit-eval-board/dt100112-microchip-6123703)

Demo Features: This application is based on Microchip's existing LightBlue Explorer demo. Via BLE, you can control LEDs, see temperature, and accelrometer data. Additionally, with using the ASCII or Hex text box on the LightBlue app you can communicate with the cellular module over BLE by issuing it AT commands.

**PIC-BLE_LTE_Click.hex** \| [PIC-BLE](https://www.futureelectronics.com/p/development-tools--microcontroller-microprocessor--8-bit-eval-board/dt100112-microchip-6123703)

Demo Features: This application will provide a wired UART pass through that will allow you to control the cellular module via AT commands. Addtionally, there is a small API to send commands to the cellular module over the UART which you can use to develop your own application.

**PIC-IoT_LTE_Click.hex** \| [PIC-IoT WA](https://www.futureelectronics.com/p/development-tools--rf-wireless/ev54y39a-microchip-9125363)

Demo Features: This application will provide a wired UART pass through that will allow you to control the cellular module via AT commands. Addtionally, there is a small API to send commands to the cellular module over the UART which you can use to develop your own application.

---

## Expanding on the Demo Applications

- There is a small API available that will allow you to pass in data to write from the Microchip board to the u-blox SARA-R4 module.
    - The core function for this is lteClick_cmd(). Use this to pass in an array of data which will then be parsed and sent over the UART.
    - As of this revision the API resides in main.c but will be moved to its own driver file with expanded functionality in the future.
- You can combine this API with the very handy libraries and extensions provided by Microchip in the MPLAB X IDE in order to create your own application leveraging a Microchip MCU and a u-blox CAT-M1 cellular module.

---

## Useful Links

1. Future Electronics
    - [FCS Website](https://www.futureelectronics.com/our-solutions/iot-solutions#:~:text=The%20model%20adopted%20by%20Future,productivity%20and%20new%20revenue%20streams.)

2. Microchip
    - [Wi-Fi IoT Boards Used](https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/internet-of-things/amazon-web-services)
    - [BLE Boards Used](https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/internet-of-things/iot-dev-kits/avr-ble-and-pic-ble-development-boards)
    - [MPLAB X IDE](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide)
    - [Microchip PIC BLE GitHub](https://github.com/microchip-pic-avr-solutions/pic-lightblue-explorer-demo)
    - [Microchip AVR BLE GitHub](https://github.com/microchip-pic-avr-solutions/avr-lightblue-explorer-demo)
    - [Microchip PIC IoT GitHub](https://github.com/microchip-pic-avr-solutions/pic-iot-aws-sensor-node)
    - [Microchip AVR IoT GitHub](https://github.com/microchip-pic-avr-solutions/avr-iot-aws-sensor-node-mplab)

3. Ublox
    - [SARA-R4 Product Page](https://www.u-blox.com/en/product/sara-r4-series)
    - [SARA-R4 AT Command Guide](https://www.u-blox.com/sites/default/files/SARA-R4_ATCommands_%28UBX-17003787%29.pdf)
    - [Mikroe LTE Click (SARA-R4)](https://www.mikroe.com/lte-iot-click)
 

4. Taoglas
    - [Taoglas Website](https://www.taoglas.com/)

5. Convergia
    - [Convergia MVNO Website](https://www.convergia.io/en-ca/)

Commit message:

Edited cell setup steps after peer review

README.md, after:

# PIC and AVR LTE Demo Files

This repository contains the .hex files that you can use to program your Microchipo AVR or PIC boards with to demo cellular function using the Ublox SARA-R4 LTE CAT-M1 click board. Below you will see a short description of each .hex file and which board it can be used with. You'll also find instructions on how to get the demo running.

Applications Rev 1.00 & Documentation Rev 1.10

Notes - Updated documentation with pictures, links, and demo walk through.

---

## Hardware Setup

1. Attach the SMA antenna to the SMA connector on the u-blox SARA-R4 module
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/attach_antenna.jpg" height="260"></a>
2. Open the SIM holder on the u-blox SARA-R4 module and insert your SIM card. Be sure to close the SIM holder.
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/open_sim.jpg" height="260"></a>
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/insert_sim.jpg" height="260"></a>
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/close_sim.jpg" height="260"></a>
3. Connect your u-blox SARA-R4 module to your AVR or PIC board using the click pins and header. Be sure to read the pin names and align the GND or GROUND pins.
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/attach_click.jpg" height="260"></a>
4. Connect a USB to Micro-USB cable to your PC and the Micro-USB port of the PIC or AVR board.
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/plug_in_usb.jpg" height="260"></a>

---

## Flashing the Microchip Board

1. Download the correct .hex file based on your board and demo from our FCS GitHub page.
2. Ensure that your Microchip board is showing in your file system. Typically, it is displayed as “CURIOUSITY”.
3. Now drag and drop the .hex file you want to use over to your board labeled “CURIOUSITY”. This will program the board.
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/HEX-2.png" height="260"></a>
4. Once the flashing is complete you’ll see both the Microchip board and the u-blox SARA-R4 power up, as indicated by their green and yellow LEDs respectively.
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/correct_power_leds.jpg" height="260"></a>

---

## Cellular Setup

The u-blox SARA-R4 module must be configured with an MNO (Mobile Network Operator) profile and the correct APN for the sim card you are using. Please follow the instructions below, but remember that one size may not fit all so we recommend checking the [SARA-R4 AT Command Guide](https://www.u-blox.com/sites/default/files/SARA-R4_ATCommands_%28UBX-17003787%29.pdf) if needed.

+ AT+CFUN=0
    + Stop the protocol stack before changing MNO profile settings.
+ AT+UMNOPROF=?
    + Shows a list of the possible network operators you can select.
+ AT+UMNOPROF=X
    + Where X is equal to the operator you want to use. It is possible to leave it at the value of 0 in which it will use the default option.
+ AT+CFUN=15
    + This will reboot which is required whenver you change the MNO profile.
+ AT+CGDCONT=1,"IP","jtm2m"
    + CGDCONT let's you set the APN. This example shows a setup for a Jersey Telecom APN that is IPv4 based with no static address. You may need to alter this command if you are using the APN provided by your SIM provider.
+ AT+CGDCONT?
    + This will read back your APN settings so that you can verify they look correct. Note that you may have an IP address assigned instead of just 0.0.0.0 which is a good indicator that you are connected to a network and able to pass traffic.
+ AT+CMEE=2
    +Set error reporting to be verbose prior to reset.
+ AT+CGEREP=?
    + Report any network GPRS URC events.
+ AT+CFUN=1,1
    + Sets the functionality and reset modes.
+ AT+CEREG?
    + Read back the Network Registration Status. You want to focus on the second parameter that comes back. A value of 1 means you are registered on the home network. A value of 2 means you are not attached, but still scanning. Finally, a value of 5 means you are attached but roaming. Thus, you are looking for a value of 1 or 5.
+ AT+COPS?
    + After the network registration (CEREG value of 1 or 5) this command will list which network to which you have attached.  To see all networks available you can do an AT+COPS=? – this command can take minutes to scan all networks, especially if all bands are enabled (see AT+UBANDMASK command if you want to limit bands to carrier or regional specific bands)
    + You can see what numbers represent which carriers here: https://www.roamingzone.com/mnc/ 

---

## Running Through the BLE Demo

Make sure you've followed the steps above to appropriately set up your hardware and flash it with the correct .hex file. Now, follow the steps below.

1. Download and install the LightBlue Punchthrough app on your phone or tablet.
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/MCHP-1.png" height="480"></a>
2. Open the app and it will scan for nearby BLE devices. 
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/MCHP-2.png" height="480"></a>
3. You’ll be able to connect to your Microchip board over BLE and issue commands to the u-blox SARA-R4 cellular module using the "Serial" section.
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/MCHP-3.png" height="480"></a>
4. You can start by sending “AT” which should give you an “OK” message back.
    + <a href="url"><img src="images/MCHP-4.png" height="480"></a>
5. You're now able to send whatever commands you would like to the SARA-R4. For more information on u-blox AT commands please refer to the guide below.
    - [AT Command Guide](https://www.u-blox.com/sites/default/files/SARA-R4_ATCommands_%28UBX-17003787%29.pdf)

---

## Individual .hex Files and their Associated Boards

**AVR-BLE_LTE_Click.hex** \|  [AVR-BLE](https://www.futureelectronics.com/p/development-tools--microcontroller-microprocessor--8-bit-eval-board/dt100111-microchip-5123703)

Demo Features: This application will provide a wired UART pass through that will allow you to control the cellular module via AT commands. Addtionally, there is a small API to send commands to the cellular module over the UART which you can use to develop your own application.

**AVR-IoT_LTE_Click.hex** \| [AVR-IoT WA](https://www.futureelectronics.com/p/development-tools--rf-wireless/ev15r70a-microchip-8125363)

Demo Features: This application will provide a wired UART pass through that will allow you to control the cellular module via AT commands. Addtionally, there is a small API to send commands to the cellular module over the UART which you can use to develop your own application.

**FCS-LTE_AVR_LIGHTBLUE_EXPLORER_DEMO.hex** \| [AVR-BLE](https://www.futureelectronics.com/p/development-tools--microcontroller-microprocessor--8-bit-eval-board/dt100111-microchip-5123703)

Demo Features: This application is based on Microchip's existing LightBlue Explorer demo. Via BLE, you can control LEDs, see temperature, and accelrometer data. Additionally, with using the ASCII or Hex text box on the LightBlue app you can communicate with the cellular module over BLE by issuing it AT commands.

**FCS-LTE_PIC_LIGHTBLUE_EXPLORER_DEMO.hex** \| [PIC-BLE](https://www.futureelectronics.com/p/development-tools--microcontroller-microprocessor--8-bit-eval-board/dt100112-microchip-6123703)

Demo Features: This application is based on Microchip's existing LightBlue Explorer demo. Via BLE, you can control LEDs, see temperature, and accelrometer data. Additionally, with using the ASCII or Hex text box on the LightBlue app you can communicate with the cellular module over BLE by issuing it AT commands.

**PIC-BLE_LTE_Click.hex** \| [PIC-BLE](https://www.futureelectronics.com/p/development-tools--microcontroller-microprocessor--8-bit-eval-board/dt100112-microchip-6123703)

Demo Features: This application will provide a wired UART pass through that will allow you to control the cellular module via AT commands. Addtionally, there is a small API to send commands to the cellular module over the UART which you can use to develop your own application.

**PIC-IoT_LTE_Click.hex** \| [PIC-IoT WA](https://www.futureelectronics.com/p/development-tools--rf-wireless/ev54y39a-microchip-9125363)

Demo Features: This application will provide a wired UART pass through that will allow you to control the cellular module via AT commands. Addtionally, there is a small API to send commands to the cellular module over the UART which you can use to develop your own application.

---

## Expanding on the Demo Applications

- There is a small API available that will allow you to pass in data to write from the Microchip board to the u-blox SARA-R4 module.
    - The core function for this is lteClick_cmd(). Use this to pass in an array of data which will then be parsed and sent over the UART.
    - As of this revision the API resides in main.c but will be moved to its own driver file with expanded functionality in the future.
- You can combine this API with the very handy libraries and extensions provided by Microchip in the MPLAB X IDE in order to create your own application leveraging a Microchip MCU and a u-blox CAT-M1 cellular module.

---

## Useful Links

1. Future Electronics
    - [FCS Website](https://www.futureelectronics.com/our-solutions/iot-solutions#:~:text=The%20model%20adopted%20by%20Future,productivity%20and%20new%20revenue%20streams.)

2. Microchip
    - [Wi-Fi IoT Boards Used](https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/internet-of-things/amazon-web-services)
    - [BLE Boards Used](https://www.microchip.com/design-centers/internet-of-things/iot-dev-kits/avr-ble-and-pic-ble-development-boards)
    - [MPLAB X IDE](https://www.microchip.com/mplab/mplab-x-ide)
    - [Microchip PIC BLE GitHub](https://github.com/microchip-pic-avr-solutions/pic-lightblue-explorer-demo)
    - [Microchip AVR BLE GitHub](https://github.com/microchip-pic-avr-solutions/avr-lightblue-explorer-demo)
    - [Microchip PIC IoT GitHub](https://github.com/microchip-pic-avr-solutions/pic-iot-aws-sensor-node)
    - [Microchip AVR IoT GitHub](https://github.com/microchip-pic-avr-solutions/avr-iot-aws-sensor-node-mplab)

3. Ublox
    - [SARA-R4 Product Page](https://www.u-blox.com/en/product/sara-r4-series)
    - [SARA-R4 AT Command Guide](https://www.u-blox.com/sites/default/files/SARA-R4_ATCommands_%28UBX-17003787%29.pdf)
    - [Mikroe LTE Click (SARA-R4)](https://www.mikroe.com/lte-iot-click)
 

4. Taoglas
    - [Taoglas Website](https://www.taoglas.com/)

5. Convergia
    - [Convergia MVNO Website](https://www.convergia.io/en-ca/)
